
#### Accountability vs Responsibility

- Accountability is **where the buck stops**.
- There can only be one accountable entity.
- Sets rules and policies

- Responsibility is **the doer**.
- In charge of a tasker or event.
- Multiple people can be responsible
- Develops plans and makes it happen

#### Due Care vs Due Diligence

- Due Care is the responsible care of assets based on the goals and objectives of the org
- Due Diligence is the demonsrated ability or prove due care
#### ITAR and EAR
Restricting the export of certain cryptographic systems

- ITAR focuses on defense related items
- EAR regulates dual use items not specifically related to ITAR
- Wassenaar Arrangement is voluntary 
- Data residency laws - store data in country

###### ISC2 code of professional ethics
Memorise the WORDING and the ORDER.
1. Protect society, the common good, necessary public trust and confidence, and the infrastructure.
2. Act honourably, honestly, justly, responsibly, and legally.
3. Provide diligent and competent service to principals.
4. Advance and Protect the profession.

#### Policies
Policies: 
- Address specific security requirements
- Simple, easy to read, and state simple rules.
- Corporate laws. Tell people what they must do.
#### Standards
Standards define specific mandatory hardware and software mechanisms - eg, you must use a specific AV brand.

#### Procedures
- How to  (SOP)
- Step by Step

#### Baselines

Minimum level of security. A checklist. Eg, enable hbfw and AV.

#### Guidelines
Recommended actions
Not Mandatory - what someone SHOULD do not what someone MUST do

#### Procurement
- Understanding and validating the business requirements. Defined in the SLR - Service Level Requirements document.
- The SLR is used to evaluate in the selection process, and then the requirements in the SLR are translated into an SLA.
- SLA is an addendum to a legally binding contract and is therefore legally binding

#### Awareness, Training, Education

- Awareness is informal process of communication with the goal of changing cultural views
- Training is semi formal, provides specific skills
- Education is about teaching fundamental concepts



