#### Privacy
- Privacy is the state or condition of being free from being observed or disturbed by other people.
- The choice to control their personal information
#### Privacy Policy
- The most important part of a pp is well defined roles with accountabilities and responsibilities
- Data Controller: An owner for the privacy program that is ACCOUNTABLE for the privacy controls
#### Personal Data
Data that can identify an individual

#### PII, SPI, PHI, PI
Personally Identifiable Information
Sensitive Personal Info
Personal Health Info
Personal Information
#### Direct Identifiers
Identify an individual on their own
- eg ID's, bank account number
#### Indirect Identifiers
Do not on their own identify an individual
- eg age, gender, ethnicity, postal code
#### Online Identifiers
Email address, Ip address etc
#### Data Lifecycle
##### Creation / Update
Where new data is generated or existing data is modified
##### Store
Where data is committed to storage
##### Use
Used by people or processes without modifying it
##### Share
Share it!
##### Archive
Tape it! In line with data retention policy
##### Destroy
Permanently destroyed
#### OECD Guidelines
##### Collection Limitation
Limit the collection of PII
Obtain it lawfully
With consent of the data subject
##### Data Quality
PII should be relevant, accurate, complete, and up to date
Organisations are now accountable for the data
##### Purpose Specification
Purpose should clearly articulate the reason PII is being collected
##### Use Limitation
PII Should only be disclosed for the purpose in which it was collected
##### Security Safeguards
PII should be protected against loss, misuse, destruction, etc.
##### Openness
Orgs should not hide the reasons that they are collecting PII
##### Individual Participation
Data subject should have thee right to access their data and request it be removed.
The right to be forgotten in GDPR.
##### Accountability
A data controller should be accountable for complying with other principals.
#### GDPR
General Data Protection Regulation
##### Supervisory Authority (SA) 
Each member state of the EU has a local SA for GDPR. Responsible for monitoring and enforcing compliance.
Data subjects can lodge complaints to SA
##### Breaches reported within 72 hours 
#### Cannot Achieve Privacy Without Security

#### Intellectual Property
The legal rights thar are granted to creators of intangible assets
##### Trade Secret 
refer to confidential info that provides a business an advantage
eg the formula for coke
##### Patent
Provide owners with exclusive access to their invention for a time period
##### Copyright
Protects the creative expression of an idea, prevent someone making an exact copy and selling it
##### Trademark
Symbols, words, designs, that distinguish companies.



