#### Threat Modeling

##### STRIDE
Essentially, the quick and easy but not super thorough methodology.
Spoofing - Integrity
Tampering - Integrity
Repudiation -
Information Disclosure - Confidentiality
Denial of Service - Availability
Elevation of Privilege

##### PASTA
Super time consuming in depth
Way more useful
##### DREAD

Dread is not used to identify threats its used to prioritise threats
#### Vulnerabilities
A weakness that exists that can be exploited by a threat
#### ALE Calculation
Annualised loss expectancy
The singular loss expectancy x the annual rate of occurrence
The SLE is Value x Exposure Factor
Exposure Factor is what percent of the asset you expect to lose if the risk occurs.

#### Qualitative

Relative ranking system
#### Treatment

1. Avoid
2. Transfer
3. Mitigate
4. Accept
##### Avoid
Choose not to engage in activities in which the risk could occur
##### Transfer
Transfer the risk to insurance company
You can never transfer accountability
##### Mitigate
Implementing controls to reduce risk
Residual risk is the leftover risk after control implementation.
#### Administrative
Policies and training
#### Technical / Logical
Firewalls, backups etc
#### Physical
Fences cameras fire suppression systems and locks
#### Safeguards
The controls to try and ensure a risk doesnt occur
##### Directive
Instructions that direct behaviour
##### Deterrent 
Discourage. They don't prevent they discourage. Eg a sign saying we will shoot intruders
##### Preventative 
Prevent / stop a risk occurring. Eg razor wire topped fences or firewalls.
#### Countermeasures
Detect and Respond to a risk that has occurred.
##### Detective
Detect. SIEM, IDS, Smoke Detectors
##### Corrective
Reduce the negative impact of events that have occurred - fire suppression
##### Recovery
Back to business as usual eg Disaster Recovery Plan
##### Compensating
Mitigate the negative impacts of risks where other controls are not effective or feasible
#### Risk Acceptance
Deliberately accept the risk and consequences. This is done by the Asset Owner who is accountable.
#### RMF NIST 800-37

- Prepare the business
- Categorize business needs
- Select controls
- Implement controls
- Assess controls
- Authorize 
- Monitor controls

#### ISO 31000

#### COSO

#### ISACA Risk IT
